Wikifrac Project Log

July 2014

Log file of development efforts
[creation date: 7-july-2014]


June 2014:

Background: after some progress in connecting to Access and MySQL simultaneously in ruby,
ran into difficulties how to create foreign keys for records. Ran into Phil Battos at a
Boulder Ruby (Pivotal Labs) user group meeting June 17, who suggested using Rails to solve this.

That sounded like a good idea to me, and I started that direction....

Then at a Hacker Hours (Viget) user group meeting June 24, I showed my work to Patrick,
and he suggested reading the Access data into a CSV file using Ruby. Much to my surprise,
this worked! (which took all of 4 lines of code...see WriteCVS.rb)

Then I proceeded to build up the Rails models to write to the various tables needed in the
Wikifrack DB...but then ran into development environment problems building the native extensions
needed for Ruby to talk to MySQL...which took about a week to figure out.

The tables, or models, were initially created using the shell script, mkmodels.sh

7-july

As of tonight, can build the native extensions without error on my home Mac.

8-july

Went to Hacker Hours at Viget, spent most of time fixing errors in development environment on my Airbook.
Finally got that corrected (native extensions compiled). Got some help from Nathaniel, an intern there, who
showed me the Foreigner gem for handling creation of foreign keys during a CVS import.
Also suggested using seeds.rb...and the Atom editor from Github.

25-july

wfrails/lib/tasks/import_partial.rake
Have made progress on this Rake task that will populate the tables in the Wikifrac database. The greatest
difficulty is how to populate the foreign keys. Hove tried to take the project to Hacker Hours meetings at
the company Viget in Boulder, but have not been able to get my Ruby environment on my Airbook synched up
with the project on my home Mac (same error I had before on home Mac, error build native gems)

Having syntax errors in the task I don't understand...

9-sept-2014

Finally! Breakthrough...

I was very close to getting the import script (import_cogcc.rake) to work on my home machine, but was still encountering
a few nagging syntax errors using the CSV class for importing, which is now built into Ruby 2.0. I wanted to go to Hacker
Hours at Viget to see if I could get some help. But I was having trouble with my environment configuration on my Airbook, and
still had problems (building native extensions, of course...) but I went anyway. 

Patrick, leader of Viget Hacker Hours, helped me to solve the configuration problems (needed a correction on how shims were
being used in the homebrew configuration of Ruby, and in the path), then I corrected a slight error in the import script
(headers must be true, in the CSV statement that opens the csv file), and BOOM! The script worked!

Informed Shane later that night.

10-sept-2014

Got a phone call back from Shane on 9/10. Will be meeting him and the investor he says that will back Wikifrac today.

Am developing some reports that will test the data integrity of the import; but the data are importing, with these
results of record counts in the 8 tables:

 companies            3466 
 counties               56 
 facilities          30084
 fields               1450
 fields_formations       0
 formations            437
 gastypes               10
 wells              143883
 
12-sept-2014

Met Shane and Mark Lichty, the investor Shane mentioned. Mark is executive producer of anti-fracking film,
"Groundswell Rising". Met at the Universalist Unitarian church, where Mark showed the film that evening.

No real action items were defined at the meeting, except that Mark said the team needs a "financial guy" to
oversee/plan the project based on funding; whereas he was better at marketing and fundraising. Shane told me
I'm the main guy behind Wikifrac, and to keep it going....

24-oct-2014

Meeting w/ Shane and, for first time, Todd Burge. Todd has his own website/IT consulting company,
and should be a huge help to get this project going. (see nebwebsites.com) Shane assured Todd that I
will be the project manager of the project. He also showed us an incredible website for California's
oil and gas public records, DOGGR (see under Wikifrac bookmarks). I will initiate sharing of what
code and data I have with Todd.

4-nov-2014

Since last meeting, I enhanced a google spreadsheet that Shane created, Todd upload, and I added to.
Shane's basic worksheet lists desired attributes, has some comparison of FracTracker features to what would be
in WikiFrac.
I added more sheets to track tasks, listed the known tasks, and began investigating webscraping.
Sent several emails to Shane and Todd, with little or no response....

Another meeting will happen today...

11-nov-2014

At the Nov 4 meeting, following action items were created:
- Rick will come up with 3 month cost estimate on development costs
- Todd will set up a test website on one of his own servers
- Once the test website is up, Rick will upload the imported database and his basic Rails app constructed based on the DB model
- Shane offered to contact Mike Foote, our district representative Colorado House Representative, to discuss legislation that would
  require the COGCC to make their database available in machine readable format
  
During the meeting on Nov 9, Todd suggested we attempt to "scope out the project" with more detailed requirements
with estimates of time and costs for the requirements. He disagrees with the Agile approach, and ridiculed my estimates
of monthly developer costs. Shane tried to be diplomatic about it all.

I am beginning to wonder how well Todd and I will be able to work together...

Todd reported that the COGCC database is not very secure, and that he could use an SQL injection attack to get into
their actual database and download it directly. I commented this would be impressive (and also illegal).

We agreed to conference call again on Friday at 11am, each with our version of estimates.

(for meeting notes, see Google Docs)

2-Dec-2014

I discovered that a key step in the import script, the join table for Fields_has_Formations, is not getting populated.
The script, /lib/tasks/import_cogcc.rake


  


 
 



